the Colburn Dance Academy was really
something that Sen Jamila PA came up
with he connected with SEL Cardin the
the president of the Colburn school he
called my wife Jennifer ringer and told
us about this amazing school that was
out here in Los Angeles it was an oasis
of Art of excellence and we were in we
were elected the vision of the co-brand
Dance Academy is really to have a strong
elite ballet program but then to also be
well-rounded artists by exploring art
exploring music exploring other genres
of dance everything that we felt that we
didn't get as students we wanted to put
into this program we don't want dancers
going into the world and having flat
performances and just being ballet
dancers we want them to be able to bring
all the richness and artistry of outside
experiences to their performing until
they're dancing into their classroom
work I really like reparatory class
because we get to learn like real
Balanchine ballets taught from people
who perform that the teachers here they
really push you because they know in
order for you to succeed they've been in
your shoes the Coburg Dance Academy is
really a unique program because number
one you have only 12 students it's
almost like private lessons in the
classes because it's a small group and
you can give a lot of individual
attention which as a teacher is really a
joy I never feel as if I'm just entering
the studio and teaching a class for a
group of kids I feel that I really know
each student and I'm able to work on
specific things that they need in the
same class we get to teach to the needs
of the students it really lends itself
to great mentorship I really like the
men's class because it's just me
and you can get away with anything I
feel like I improved so much just in one
session all of us are like a family so I
feel so even more also because there is
only 12 of us you got a lot more
I don't really find myself repeating
myself I feel like each time I come in I
can take it to it the next level and
that's really the moment of a creative
process the amount of improvement that
we've all exhibited it's just like
pretty darn cool one of the things I
love about the cover in school is that
already there's a tradition of
excellence in music and then to bring
dancers into the mix you know we have
live music in our classes and our
dancers get to interact with these
musicians and it brings their level of
dedication up I really like the music
class and learning piano because I
didn't realize how technically difficult
it is I think we all have a deeper
appreciation you see our dancers eating
lunch out on the promenade with these
wonderful musicians and then they're in
class excelling at their own art form I
live with other musicians so I feel like
their dedication to music motivates me
and to being a better dancer even though
we aren't in the same kind of art I feel
like a very motivated teenager not only
we're giving them all the typical
traditional ballet training they're also
taking classes like contacts which is to
work on the rhythm and syncopation
they're gonna be taking street dancing
classes they're taking drama classes
we're providing such a rich environment
so that not only they become great
dancers they become real leaders in the
field like a few steps away from mocha
and the concert halls right there and
the fact that we are able to access
anywhere in downtown really complete
into our artistry we bring in master
guests teachers currently working in the
field today we go out to performances we
bring them to dress rehearsals so that
they get to see the behind the scenes we
go to the museum and we dissect a piece
of art and really see how the artist
worked on it going to MOCA once a month
is I think really important for us
because the more art you have in your
vocabulary and your mind helps you
in your life we come down to the heli
dance project space for contemporary
dance every Saturday and one thing that
I like about it in comparison to the
coal burns - you see how bare it is here
it's not like super structured and it's
so relaxed the environment it allows you
to become more of your self rather than
another character Charlie and I have
been working with the Academy students
on transitioning their ballet technique
and their classical training to really
expand upon what their bodies can do
they're highly trained but you can't
just throw them on the floor and say
roll around or improvise and expect
their bodies to be like that's
recognizable it's a bit of a foreign
territory
we're so used to being confined to like
the strict posture and rules of ballet
you kind of find your own contemporary
dance allows me to apply my ballet
technique apply my modern technique then
get into my raw edge and as you're
performing mode it just marries all
those things what I like to MSI
musicality efficiency and clarity
musicality above all I want their bodies
to sing when they dance
I find myself telling such answers to
see where their eyelashes are located
where their fingernails are reaching for
it's finding those little details in
between the steps it will help them not
only master the technique of ballet but
become beautiful artists a typical
colburn dance academy students is
thoughtful students you can see them
really processing and executing dance
and improved way every time we get in
class it's really just knowing how to
give them specifics again we're using
our bodies and so each dancer is going
to have a specific challenge sometimes
its feet sometimes it's arms sometimes
it's head and neck sometimes it's the
whole picture I see their brain firing
just as much of their bodies to be able
to do that in a tight-knit group I feel
like they're taking some bigger risks
we've been able to give these students
such an amazing experience and I see
them soaking it up they they come into
class every day clear-eyed enthusiastic
ready to work James and I wanted to
create our dream Bali program we feel
like we've been able to do it here at
co-current when Benjamin mili PA
contacted us he talked about the
well-rounded experience that he had
training Leon he's somebody that not
only became a great dancer but now is a
true leader we think that his training
and his experiences as a student
supported him and that incredible rise
and that's what we want for our colburn
Dance Academy students I cannot possibly
think of any other school with such a
different aspects of dance and art in
general a lot of people they would go to
really prestigious ballet school but she
wouldn't get a contemporary class and
the untapped and going to the museum
every month and being able to be around
incredible musicians and inspire you in
the same place as you I feel like we're
really just the luckiest teenagers in
the entire country